# Sources

1. **Częstochowska, J., et al. (2022). On the context-free ambiguity of emoji: A data-driven study of 1,289 emojis. Cornell University. https://doi.org/10.48550/arXiv.2201.06302**
    - This paper talks about the semantic variation and ambiguity of emojis, and how people interpret each emoji. This study crowdsourced datasets of one word descriptions of the emoji and presented it to participants. An example mentioned would be the fire emoji. The fire emoji can mean “fire” or “hot”. “hot “ as in saying someone is hot and cute. The terms “fire” and “hot” are semantically close via semantic variation.
2. **Danesi, M. (2017). Emoji semantics. _The semiotics of emoji_ (pp. 51-76). Bloomsbury Academic.**
    - This chapter talks about the semantics of emojis by referencing something they call the "thesaurus effect". The "thesaurus effect" is said to be culturally-based because an emoji that has been marked as positive by a certain subgroup may be interpreted as negative by another. There are certain connotations for emojis, where some match the "intended" meaning of the emojis while others do not (e.g., the upside-down face emoji is literally the smiley face turned upside down, but it has a negative connotation, where it may be used by some to denote sarcasm).
3. **Danesi, M. (2017). Emoji pragmatics. _The semiotics of emoji_ (pp. 95-116). Bloomsbury Academic.**
    - This chapter talks about the pragmatics of emojis, i.e., adding tone to text and giving a visual representation of the writer's mood. This is relevant to our project because we will be looking at the tone of text marked by emojis and how some emojis used to visualize a certain mood may mean something completely different than it seems.
4. **McCulloch, G. (2019). Emoji and other internet gestures. _Because internet: understanding the new rules of language_ (pp. 127-161). Riverhead Books.**
    - This chapter talks about the use of emojis on the internet to express "emblems". McCulloch touches on how some emojis are used to represent certain things than intended (such as the eggplant emoji used as a phallic symbol rather than as a literal eggplant). It's explained that emojis help indicate one's mental state, which can allow addressees to better understand other people and their intentions.
5. **Riordan, M. A. (2017). Emojis as tools for emotion work: Communicating affect in text messages. _Journal of Language and Social Psychology, 36_(5), 549-567. https://doi.org/10.1177/0261927X17704238**
    - This paper explores how the number of emojis affecct the emotion that people convey from messages. It was found that messages with non-face emojis tended to be interpreted as more positive than those without. While this may not be as relevant to our paper since the emojis in which we are interested are face emojis, it is interesting to learn that the number of emojis present in a message affects its interpretation. 
6. **Robertson, A., et al. (2021). Semantic journeys: Quantifying change in emoji meaning from 2012 - 2018. Cornell University. https://arxiv.org/abs/2105.00846**
    - This paper talks about how the use and interpretation of emojis changes semantically over time. By applying semantic change detection techniques to the emoji, Robertson and her team examined and searched for patterns of the semantic development of the emoji over time. An example would be the skull emoji. The skull emoji has a rather figurative meaning than the literal meaning. It’s literal meaning is associated with zombies, corpses, undead, bury, and etc…, but the figurative meaning is associated with dying of laughter or embarrassment.
7. **Thompson, D., Filik, R. (2016). Sarcasm in written communication: Emoticons are efficient markers of intention. _Journal of Computer-Mediated Communication, 21_(2), 105-120. https://doi.org/10.1111/jcc4.12156**
    - This paper is not about emojis but about emoticons (the ones that are created with symbols on a standard keyboard) and how they work as tone markers, particularly sarcasm. It was found that emoticons were used more often in sarcastic comments than literal ones, and that the tongue face (:P) and the winky face (;)) were used more frequently in sarcastic comments than the smiley face (:)), which was mostly used to convey praise, and the frowny face (>:(), which was mostly used to convey critism.
8. **Weissman, B., Tanner, D. (2018). A strong wink between verbal and emoji-based irony: How the brain processes ironic emojis during language comprehension. _PloS One, 13_(8), e0201727. https://doi.org/10.1371/journal.pone.0201727**
    - This paper explores irony-producing emojis and how that relates to verbal irony. In particular, it was found that the winky face emoji is often treated as a marker of irony. This is more of a psycholinguistics find, but it is important to keep in mind that emojis are absolutely a part of language and can act as tone markers, e.g., for sarcasm or irony.
